text/0000-bootstrap.md, before:

- Start Date: 2016-05-01
- RFC PR: (leave this empty)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Implement a lightweight RFC process for the nix project.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Development on nix has been going well over the last few months. For the most part, adding APIs and working out how to adapt them to be more Rust-friendly has worked really well. However, there are some tougher design choices where there's been stagnation. Some examples:

- string handling in nix (https://github.com/nix-rust/nix/issues/221)
- the future of nix, including crate organization (https://github.com/nix-rust/nix/issues/190)

Implementing an RFC process will give us a clear place to discuss those changes. Just as importantly, there will be a clear document stating what is being proposed. This way one doesn't need to read an entire comment thread to find out what the actual proposal is.

We have already created a [conventions document][conventions] to help newcomers to the library understand how nix approaches its APIs. Larger additions to that document would also go through the RFC process.

[conventions]: https://github.com/nix-rust/nix/blob/master/CONVENTIONS.md


# Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

*The contents of this section will make up the bulk of the RFC
repository's README after this RFC is accepted.*

The nix RFC process is modelled after [the one Rust uses][rust-rfc-process] but adjusted to be lighter weight. Credit for the lightness also goes to the [intermezzOS project's RFC process][intermezzos-rfcs].

[rust-rfc-process]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs#what-the-process-is
[intermezzos-rfcs]: https://github.com/intermezzOS/rfcs

To initially discuss a topic, open an issue on [the RFC repo][nix-rfcs]. We’ll discuss things in those issues.

[nix-rfcs]: https://github.com/nix-rust/rfcs

When a proposal is ready to be made, submit a pull request adding a new file in
the `text` directory. More detailed steps:
  - Fork the RFC repo http://github.com/nix-rust/rfcs
  - Copy `0000-template.md` to `text/0000-my-rfc-name.md` (where `my-rfc-name` is descriptive. don't assign an RFC number yet).
  - Fill in the RFC, and open the pull request

We’ll discuss things in the PR, and then either merge or not.


# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

It adds some process where there was none.

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

## No process

We could continue as we have. This has already resulted in some stagnant
areas where we need to make a decision to move forward. 

## More process

We could instead opt for a heaver process. It is most likely not warranted for the size of the project.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved]: #unresolved-questions

What sections should be in the template? The same as in this RFC?

Commit message:

Mention changes should not be squashed

text/0000-bootstrap.md, after:

- Start Date: 2016-05-01
- RFC PR: (leave this empty)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Implement a lightweight RFC process for the nix project.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Development on nix has been going well over the last few months. For the most part, adding APIs and working out how to adapt them to be more Rust-friendly has worked really well. However, there are some tougher design choices where there's been stagnation. Some examples:

- string handling in nix (https://github.com/nix-rust/nix/issues/221)
- the future of nix, including crate organization (https://github.com/nix-rust/nix/issues/190)

Implementing an RFC process will give us a clear place to discuss those changes. Just as importantly, there will be a clear document stating what is being proposed. This way one doesn't need to read an entire comment thread to find out what the actual proposal is.

We have already created a [conventions document][conventions] to help newcomers to the library understand how nix approaches its APIs. Larger additions to that document would also go through the RFC process.

[conventions]: https://github.com/nix-rust/nix/blob/master/CONVENTIONS.md


# Detailed design
[design]: #detailed-design

*The contents of this section will make up the bulk of the RFC
repository's README after this RFC is accepted.*

The nix RFC process is modelled after [the one Rust uses][rust-rfc-process] but adjusted to be lighter weight. Credit for the lightness also goes to the [intermezzOS project's RFC process][intermezzos-rfcs].

[rust-rfc-process]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs#what-the-process-is
[intermezzos-rfcs]: https://github.com/intermezzOS/rfcs

To initially discuss a topic, open an issue on [the RFC repo][nix-rfcs]. We’ll discuss things in those issues.

[nix-rfcs]: https://github.com/nix-rust/rfcs

When a proposal is ready to be made, submit a pull request adding a new file in
the `text` directory. More detailed steps:
  - Fork the RFC repo http://github.com/nix-rust/rfcs
  - Copy `0000-template.md` to `text/0000-my-rfc-name.md` (where `my-rfc-name` is descriptive. don't assign an RFC number yet).
  - Fill in the RFC, and open the pull request

We’ll discuss things in the PR, and then either merge or not. The RFC text will likely change as we discuss it; those changes should be added to the PR as additional commits without squashing or rebasing to keep a record of the them.


# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

It adds some process where there was none.

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

## No process

We could continue as we have. This has already resulted in some stagnant
areas where we need to make a decision to move forward. 

## More process

We could instead opt for a heaver process. It is most likely not warranted for the size of the project.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved]: #unresolved-questions

What sections should be in the template? The same as in this RFC?
